
Week 0 (08.01.2023 - 15.01.2023)


Starting to count weeks from 0, as programming and the primitive basics of it are all about 0s and 1s.
Not going to lie, this week was more of an "adaptive week" and mostly I was doing my best to get into the new rhythm of life. I finally have a constructive and planned out days, finally have some kind of a "routine".

The changes include waking up at 05:30AM every morning, going to the gym on a daily basis, getting rid of junk food, more reading (which I will go through later in this post) and excluding sugar from my diet. Still working on some points, but already feeling better and noticing that I have more time and energy throughout the day, despite being an early bird.


a) Everybody has heard about and knows Harvard University, but not everyone is aware that they have multiple free programming courses that anybody who is interested can join in on the fun. The programme that I've chosen to begin with is called "CS50 Introduction to Computer Science", here is the link for anyone who is interested - https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x.

You can participate in Harvard’s lectures, laboratories and problem sets while sitting at home and it's all for free! I've personally completed "Week 0" and "Week 1", where I learned the very basics of programming and how computers acknowledge the information and tasks that we give them. Also as part of my homework, I messed around with a web application called "Scratch" and made my first programme or it would be more appropriate to call it a game. Here is a link for that - https://scratch.mit.edu/projects/785937412. Also a well know programming language "C" has been introduced and served as an example in the Week 1's lecture, but I didn't yet have a chance to complete the problem set, more about it in the next post.

b) I've researched all the necessary information on books that might come in-handy for my studies and came across these two - "CODE" Second Edition by Charles Petzold, also known as "The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software" and "grokking algorithms" An illustrated guide for programmers and other curious people by Aditza Y. Bhargava.

I've began with the "CODE" and find in immensely interesting to read, this being a second edition makes it even better as author makes his correction from the very beginning and adapted to the new technological progress. I definitely recommend this book to all the beginners who just starting to get involved into programming, because this book going through the fundamentals of computer's software and hardware as well and it useful to have knowledge on that in my opinion.

c) Cleaning up my phone played a huge role in my productivity, first I've got rid of all the uunnecessary apps and then accidentally stomped onto this app called "Sololearn" with is a fantastic tool to learn programming languages while having no access to my laptop, it contains all the required information and it's unique way of presenting it. Give it a try and you won't be disappointed, not that I use it that often, but it a good replacement to all the time wasting applications that I used to have...


Score for this week:

Productivity level - 6,0 /10,0
Course Progress - 8,0 /10,0
Time management - 6,5 /10,0
Information obtained - 7,0 /10,0
Reading books - 5,5 /10,0

OVERALL WEEK SCORE = 6.6
